HELP

JavaShop is a multi-layered photo editing utility.
Upon opening, JavaShop will create a new file for you.
To open an image go to File and then selected Open.
That image will be scaled to size and be added as the top layer.

LAYERS
Layers are representations of the image such that they can be moved around again, and placed on top another in any desired order.
To change the ordering of any layer, select the layer (either from the list, or by clicking on it on-screen)
then either use the layer buttons on the right of the screen, or select one of the tools from the layer menu.
The list to the right of the screen shows all layers in order.
The topmost layer is at the top of the list and the bottom-most layer is at the bottom of the list.
The "NULL LAYER" is the background and cannot be edited.
To add additional layers, go to the Layer menu and choose one of the options for Add Layer.
JavaShop supports adding images from URLs, Files, or Colors.

Drag and Drop
JavaShop will automatically try to import a layer by dragging and dropping an image or image file onto the screen.
It also will be able to import from images stored on the clipboard (eg you can go to a website and copy an image, then pasteit in the program).
You can also copy, cut, and paste layers inside the program, however, the will not be pasted normally into other applications.

SAVING LAYERS
You may also save an individual layer with all of its effects and transparency.
To do so, select the layer, then choose "Save Layer" from the Layer menu.

ADJUSTMENT
To adjust a layer, simply press on its location on the screen or select it from the layer list on the right.
It should then have a blue box around it. (This indicates that the layer is selected. To de-select the layer, press on it again)
You may then adjust its position, height, or width, by dragging the on-screen toolbars.
You may also use keyboard input to adjust the layer.
Press up, down, left, or right on the arrow keys to move the layer accordingly.
You may also press delete to remove the layer.
To scale the layer to the size of the image and center it, press "Scale to Frame Size" from the button on the right or the Layer Menu.

FILTERS
To apply filters to the image, adjust the sliders or text boxes to the right of the screen.
Moving the sliders will automatically update.
To update after typing in the textbox, press enter while inside the textbox.
Available filters currently include: Red value, Green value, Blue value, Brightness, and Contrast.

VISUAL EFFECTS
There are also 3 visual effects currently supported.
These can be found to the right of the screen and can be enabled by using a checkbox.
Current visual effects include: grayscale, color inversion, and alpha inversion.

COLOR SELECTOR
To the left of the screen, there are several color sliders labeled Red, Green, and Blue.
To the bottom of these sliders is a large colored rectangle.
These sliders allow you to select any color you desire, and will display it on the panel.
Additionally, the color panel allows you to select any of the colors in the image directly by clicking on them.
(PLEASE NOTE THE BY CLICKING ON-SCREEN AT ANY TIME, THE COLOR IN THE WINDOW AND THE SLIDERS0 WILL CHANGE TO THAT COLOR) 

ALPHA MASKING
At the top of the color selector rectangle, you may notice a slider bar.
This is for applying alpha effects.
Having the slider set to the leftmost position indicated 0 alpha, full transparency, or no opacity.
Having the slider set to the rightmost position indicated 255 alpha, no transparency, or full opacity.
You can change the alpha of a layer by using the color selector, slider, and Alpha Buttons.
To change the alpha of the entire layer, set the desired alpha level on the slider, 
select the image, and press "Apply Alpha Mask On All."
To change the alpha of the layer for one particular color, choose the color either by clicking or deriving it from the sliders,
choose the desired alpha level of that color, then press "Apply Alpha Mask."
It may be helpful to select the layer from the layer list on the right since clicking on a layer on-screen may change the color.
However if you desire changing a specific color from the layer, click enough times on the spot which contains the color
you wish to change so that the layer is selected. (If not previously selected, this will be once, if previously selected this will be twice.)

LAYER PREVIEW
JavaShop supports displaying a preview of the currently selected layer.
This is displayed to the top left of the screen.
It will only display the currently selected layer (with all effects applied)
If there is alpha in your image, you will see a checker-board pattern where there is alpha.
If nothing is selected, you will just see the checker-board image.

DIRECT EFFECTS
JavaShop supports a direct effect known as emboss.
This will make the image appear as thought it has come out more.
You may apply this effect by selecting emboss from the top right button labeled "Emboss"
BE CAREFUL THOUGH
Direct effect means that it edits the source image and cannot be undone.
Be sure that you really want the effect before applying.

SETTINGS
You can adjust the resolution that you view the image in by selecting Image Settings from the Settings menu.
A dialog box will pop up showing the current resolution.
You may change the resolution by editing these textboxes with any natural number (Integer > 0)
then pressing enter.
You will immediately see the change.
JUST DON'T FORGET TO HIT ENTER

SAVING
You can save your masterpiece as a PNG by selecting save from the File Menu.
A File Chooser will pop up where you can select the name of your file.
MAKE SURE TO APPEND the .PNG extension to your file when saving.

EXPORTING
You can export your masterpiece in any quality you want by selecting save from the File Menu.
A box will pop up asking for the dimensions you wish to save it in.
Like in saving, a File Chooser will pop up where you can select the name of your file.
AGAIN, MAKE SURE TO APPEND the .PNG extension to your file when saving.